# MRE-320-project1

# MPU6050 Chenyuhang Zhou
The project focuses on the MPU6050, a compact motion sensing chip ideal for precision in navigation for industrial and hobbyist applications. The MPU6050 measures six degrees of freedom, capturing three-dimensional acceleration and rotation, crucial for technologies like robotics and flight controls. The experiment involved comparing the MPU6050's sensitivity and range to a smartphone's sensors, assessing accuracy and error through free fall tests, and examining sensor drift over time. The findings suggest while the MPU6050 records physical changes and has a rapid response in angular velocity, it lacks the linearity found in smartphone sensors. Despite its high integration and ease of use, considerations for error, data sampling intervals, and maximum measurement range are necessary for practical applications. Further improvements in the setup to eliminate errors were recommended.

# Ultrasonic Module HC-SR04 Quan Gu
In this part, we will focuse on Ultrasonic Module HC-SR04. Ultrasonic sensors are sensors that measure distance by propagating ultrasonic waves in the air. If ultrasound hits an object or obstacle along its path, it will bounce back to the sensor. Firstly, the transmitter (trip pin) sends sound waves, which are picked up by the object and reflected to the sensor. The receiver (echo pin) picks it up. As the speed of sound in the air is known, the time between transmission and reception allows for the calculation of the distance between them. The main difficulty with the propagation of ultrasound in air is that the attenuation of by high-frequency ultrasound in air is high so that the range of these devices is relatively short.​ And we will find some important static characteristics of Ultrasonic Module.​
